---
title: "Book List of 2022 - A recap of the books read"
date: 2022-12-29
draft: false

categories: ["books"]
tags: ["book reading list", "2022", "professional development"]
toc: false
author: "djfreese"
---

Alas I'll admit that I probably get through approximately 1 or 2 books a month and honestly this year we had our second kid so it seems I didn't even make it that far!  So with work-life (children, exercise, children again) balance I try to make sure my time reading really counts. Which I've learned it really hard to do, child no. 1 is usually trying to fight me for the reading spot, and baby no. 2 has the book in his mouth.

Topics that always peak my interest are finance, economics, business related, career building. So this is the my completed 2022 reading list in no particular order:

* **Last Man Standing** - I'm always curious about how the many financial crises in our recent history evolved, the major playors, and different perspectives. So this book was very interesting because it not only goes into how Jamie Dimon came to be CEO of JPM Chase but also positioned JPM Chase during the 2008 financial crisis. I would give it a 10/10  because very well written and an interesting read.

* **How the Scots Invented the Modern World** - This was published in 2001, and was an unexpected really fascinating read on how the Scots influence reached into Europe and to the U.S. So many forward thinkers, engineers and teachers. I would give it a 10/10 - it's well written, the only caveat is for me it was a little dense.

* **The Unicorn's Shadow** - This is written by Ph.D Ethan Mollick and it a very short concise read about myth's surrounding startups, founders, and what it takes to do so backed by real data. It was recently published in 2020, and if you're interested in building up some courage to venture out on your own I would grab a copy of this book.

* **Don't Even Think About it - Why Our Brains are Wired to Ignore Climate Change** - This is an atypical climate change book in that it doesn't focus on climate science but actually delves into the psychological reason of why we do not act on it. He interviews numerous researchers on the topic that take on the question from various angles. It was a fun, semi-dark satirical read in some sense on human nature and my own flaws as well in acting on knowledge of climate change.

* **Bad Blood | Secets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup |** - I decided to stop ignoring the book, and it turned out to be one of my favorite reads of this year. Basically all I can say is "wow". Each chapter was completely enthralling, the author does a great job of putting all the events in order, and painting a clear picture of what was going on. I have not watched the documentary yet so I'm looking forward to sitting down and doing that now that I've finished the book.

* **Principles for Dealing with The Changing World Order | Why Nations Succeed and Fail** - Ok it's a Ray Dalio book. I like to read economnic and finance books because I feel ignorant in the subject. What to say about this book. I liked it, and for me it was valuable to read. I do find I have a slightly better understanding of large national scale macroeconomic picture. But, I do think that the writing could have been cleaned up a bit more. It's really wordy.

* **Good to Great** - I saw this book on someone's desk and thought it looked interesting. By now it's not necessarily a new book, published in 2001 but still very relevant. It is basically is the summary of graduate studies researching what attributes of a company shifted it from being "good" to "great", great being classified as 15 year cumulative stock returns that were at or better than the stock market. First, what is compelling about the book is that the target companies identified as successfully are very unsuspecting and not in glamourous industries. Second, because this is actual graduate research done in a business school, it gives you glimpse of the type of work done in that field. Beyond that, you should read the book to learn more about what core attributes enabled enabled the transition, honestly for anyone that works, irrespective of the industry, it's a valuable read.

## What am I reading in 2023

Well! Trying to start out strong so I've got a couple of AI books in the backlog. Not necessarily mathematical in nature, more like use-cases, concerns, the near future with AI.
